A better Introduction (#1237)
ietf-tapswg/api-drafts: draft-ietf-taps-arch.md

Many application programming interfaces (APIs) to perform transport networking have been deployed, perhaps the most widely known and imitated being the BSD Socket {{POSIX}} interface (Socket API). The naming of objects and functions across these APIs is not consistent and varies depending on the protocol being used. For example, sending and receiving streams of data is conceptually the same for both an unencrypted Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) stream and operating on an encrypted Transport Layer Security (TLS) {{?RFC8446}} stream over TCP, but applications cannot use the same socket ```send()``` and ```recv()``` calls on top of both kinds of connections.
Similarly, terminology for the implementation of transport protocols varies based on the context of the protocols themselves: terms such as "flow", "stream", "message", and "connection" can take on many different meanings. This variety can lead to confusion when trying to understand the similarities and differences between protocols, and how applications can use them effectively.

The goal of the Transport Services architecture is to provide a flexible

> and a reusable architecture that provides a common interface for transport protocols. An application uses the Transport Services system through an abstract Connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and reusable architecture that provides a common interface for transport protocols. An application uses the Transport Services system through an abstract Connection.
```

(to avoid the impression that there are two architectures)

Reviewer: I'm also not sure about the capitalization - this is before the "glossary of key terms", so to a reader, the use of capital-C "Connection" that early in the document may be weird. Maybe:

```suggestion
and reusable architecture that provides a common interface for transport protocols. An application uses the Transport Services system through an abstract Connection (we use capitalization to distinguish these from the underlying connections of, e.g., TCP).
```

This provides
flexible connection establishment allowing an application to request or require a set of properties.
The system selects one or more candidate each with equivalent protocol stacks.

> This set of candidates can be raced to identify

Reviewer: I would complain that it's not yet explained what racing is - but I think you missed that we have already addressed this comment, at least partially, by explaining racing in the next paragraph ("It can also support applications by offering racing mechanisms..."). So this is just a duplication here.

Author: OK, well ... I guess we can avoid racing here, and only say the candidates are used

Reviewer: Good idea. Here it goes:
```suggestion
This set of candidates is used to identify
```

an optimal combination of transport protocol instance such as TCP, UDP, or another transport, together with  configuration of parameters and
interfaces. The Connection represents an object that, once established, can be used to send and receive messages.

> A Connection can be created from another Connection, by cloning, and then forms a part of a Connection Group that share properties.

Reviewer: Something's grammatically weird here, with plural "share" and singular "Group". Perhaps:
```suggestion
A Connection can be created from another Connection, by cloning, and then forms a part of a Connection Group whose Connections share properties.
```

Similarly, terminology for the implementation of transport protocols varies based on the context of the protocols themselves: terms such as "flow", "stream", "message", and "connection" can take on many different meanings. This variety can lead to confusion when trying to understand the similarities and differences between protocols, and how applications can use them effectively.

The goal of the Transport Services architecture is to provide a flexible
and reusable architecture that provides a common interface for transport protocols. An application uses the Transport Services system through an abstract Connection (we use capitalization to distinguish these from the underlying connections of, e.g., TCP).
This provides
flexible connection establishment allowing an application to request or require a set of properties.

> As applications adopt this interface, they will benefit from a wide set of transport features that can evolve over time, and ensure that the system providing the interface can optimize its behavior based on the application requirements and network conditions, without requiring changes to the applications. This flexibility enables faster deployment of new features and protocols. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As applications adopt this interface, they will benefit from a wide set of transport features that can evolve over time, and ensure that the system providing the interface can optimize its behavior based on the application requirements and network conditions, without requiring changes to the applications. This flexibility enables faster deployment of new features and protocols.
```

This might fix the compilation problem

# Transport Services Architecture and Concepts {#concepts}

> This section of the document describe the architecture non-normatively. The concepts defined in this document are intended primarily for use in the documents and specifications that describe the Transport Services system. This includes the architecture, the Transport Services API and the associated Transport Services implementation. While the specific terminology can be used in some implementations, it is expected that there will remain a variety of terms used by running code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section of the document describes the architecture non-normatively. The concepts defined in this document are intended primarily for use in the documents and specifications that describe the Transport Services system. This includes the architecture, the Transport Services API and the associated Transport Services implementation. While the specific terminology can be used in some implementations, it is expected that there will remain a variety of terms used by running code.
```

### Connection Groups

> A Connection Group is a set of Connections that shares Connection Properties and Cached State generated by protocols.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we have a cached state objet here … so why capitalize?

Author: reverted - good either way
